NARRATOR:
In a land of myth...
...and a time of magic...
...the destiny of a great kingdom...
...rests on the shoulders of a young man.
His name, Merlin.
[GROANING]
So, Emrys.
[GASPS]
Morgana.
When I found you,
you were unconscious in the woods.
What happened to you?
Morgana, who did this to you?
Emrys.
The old man?
He was here?
He took the Fomorroh. He destroyed it.
He knew of our plans to kill Arthur?
He knows all our plans, all our secrets.
-He knows everything.
-Someone's telling him.
Ugh. Gaius.
When I first asked him if he knew Emrys...
...he claimed not to know, but he was lying.
| knew he was lying!
Gaius.
He's the only one in Camelot
who would know the Fomorroh.
It has to be him.
He's been telling Emrys everything.
Good.
Then he can lead us straight to him.
Gaius is loyal...
...and very stubborn.
He won't do that willingly.
Who said he had to be willing?
Up you get.
-What for?
-A bath.
Where's breakfast?
-Say "ah."
-Ah?
[MUMBLING]
Merlin!
I've set aside some practice time.
Oh, wonderful. What for?
-Quarterstaff? Battle ax?
-Your speech.
-Who to?
-The guild of harness polishers.
The guild of who?
| don't know anything about polishing.
Fortunately, I do.
-That'll take hours to learn.
-You don't have hours.
First, you're to receive Odin's envoy.
-Do I have to give a speech?
-No. You have to listen to one.
Then you're to inspect the guards,
perform a freeman's ceremony-- Oh.
[CLICKING TONGUE]
And be a judge.
-Preside over a trial?
-A garland competition.
Never get any time to myself.
| know. It's almost like having to work.
Come on. We don't have time for this.
No. Come on. Out.
-Out of bed.
-No!
You're doing very well, Arthur.
- I don't think so.
-Everyone's saying it.
I'm glad your friends at the tavern approve.
I'm serious.
You are becoming a very good king.
Ugh. Thank you. You're still
the worst servant I've ever known.
[KNOCKING ON DOOR]
Enter.
Good morning, my lord.
May I have a word?
Of course.
Uh, the matter I wish to discuss
is a delicate one, sire.
Perhaps it would be better if we talked alone.
[HORSE NEIGHS]
AGRAVAINE:
We know there is a traitor amongst us.
- I wish I could deny it.
-We have to consider everyone.
Even those dearest to us.
No one can be above suspicion.
Of course.
So.
-One of your knights?
-No.
You're sure?
| would vouch for each
and every one of them.
Well, I have suggested Gaius before...
...but I can't believe he'd betray you.
Nor I. Gaius has always
been a loyal servant.
Indeed, a friend. To me and my father.
Well, it was Gaius who told you...
...where to find the sorcerer
that killed your father.
Wasn't it?
And we do know that he has
dabbled in sorcery.
What if his interest in the dark arts
has been rekindled?
I've always believed I can trust Gaius.
Oh, me too. Heh.
Perhaps I am being a little hasty.
It wouldn't do any harm to ask
him some questions, would it?
I'm not sure there's any need.
Oh, I believe there is, sire.
We're talking about your safety
and the safety of the realm.
Somebody is plotting against you
and it is my duty...
...to investigate every possibility,
however unlikely.
I'm sure that Gaius himself
would respect that.
[ALL CHATTERING]
| wish to see the Catha.
He's expecting me.
[MAN CHANTING IN FOREIGN LANGUAGE]
You are Alator of the Catha...
...warrior and priest.
You are Morgana Pendragon...
...high priestess of the Triple Goddess...
...and last of your kind.
What do you seek here?
| need you to abduct someone...
...from Camelot.
Camelot is no friend to our kind.
From what I hear,
the young king follows Uther's ways.
You are a Catha.
Such things would not stop you.
Why should I risk my life for you?
MORGANA: Because I'm willing to give you
something in return.
It was forged on the Isle of the Blessed
by a high priestess.
Its healing powers are without equal
in the Five Kingdoms.
There is true power here.
This is a precious gift.
The person you seek
must be important to you.
Yes.
| hope the man will lead me
to my mortal enemy...
...EmMrys.
It is as you wish.
| will perform this task for you.
[DOOR OPENS]
AGRAVAINE:
Please...
...Sit down.
Why have I been brought here
in this manner?
AGRAVAINE:
As the king's right-hand man...
...one of my jobs is to ensure his safety.
If that means asking questions...
...even of his most trusted servants...
...then so be it.
No one is to take offense at this.
Have I done something wrong, sire?
What is your attitude to sorcery, Gaius?
It is against the law.
And do you agree with that?
| understand the reason for it.
Uh, that's not an answer
to the question that I asked.
The law is needed to prevent the abuses...
...that have been perpetrated by sorcerers.
Can I ask you to be a little
more direct with your answers?
Do you agree that magic should be banned?
Yes or no.
-Yes.
-Have you ever practiced sorcery?
-A long time ago.
-Recently?
-No.
-Then how did you know...
...the sorcerer that killed Uther?
-I'd heard of him.
-You told Arthur where to find him.
-Yes.
-That suggests you did know him.
| was told of a dwelling
where he could be found.
Who by?
| cannot say.
AGRAVAINE:
Have you ever met with him?
It's a simple enough question, Gaius.
Have you met him? Yes or no.
No.
[CHUCKLES]
-And you would be prepared to swear to that?
-Yes.
On oath?
Yes.
Hmm.
Thank you, Gaius.
It's been most informative.
Is that it?
Mm. For today.
[DOOR OPENS]
[DOOR CLOSES]
Was it really necessary
that you treat him like that?
Your life is at stake, sire.
We cannot afford to be fainthearted.
And you saw with your own eyes.
He was lying.
He's definitely hiding something.
-Heh.
-But we can't be certain.
-We have no proof.
-No.
You're right, sire.
We do not.
But I fear that if we keep investigating...
...we might find some.
[DOOR CLOSES]
[HORSE WHINNIES]
[KNOCKING ON DOOR]
AGRAVAINE:
Come in.
Ah. Close the door, would you?
Merlin, I realize what a loyal
and trusted servant you are...
...So I have a very special errand for you.
What do you think?
-It's beautiful.
-It's a present for Arthur.
-Heh.
-Oh.
It's been crafted by the sword-smiths
of Gedref...
...but unfortunately, the blade has become
somewhat dulled during the journey.
-Would you sharpen it for me?
-Of course.
Oh, and, Merlin?
Leave it for the king
to find in the morning, hmm?
Ha, ha. Yeah.
It will be my pleasure.
[DOOR CLOSES]
[HORSE WHINNIES]
[SPEAKING IN FOREIGN LANGUAGE]
-You're late.
-Let us not waste time then.
[FLOORBOARD CREAKING]
Merlin?
Ah. Sleep now.
[HORSE WHINNIES]
[BELLS CLANGING IN DISTANCE]
AGRAVAINE:
My lord, he was seen riding away from the city.
-No, that can't be true.
-Sire.
You were right.
A white stallion has been taken
from the royal stables.
Where would he be going?
Why leave at this time of night?
| could hazard a guess, sire, but I think
a thorough search of his belongings...
...may well provide us with the truth.
And this was found in Gaius' chambers?
| am as disappointed as you, sire.
Someone so close, so trusted.
Well, it's not merely the discovery
that he was a sorcerer, is it? It's--
It's the lies.
Lies and years of betrayal.
| know it's hard to believe, isn't it, sire?
But we both saw him
refuse to condemn magic.
We both knew he was hiding something.
Neither of us want to believe it,
but now...
...with this hasty departure
in the middle of the night...
These are not the actions
of an innocent man.
There can be no doubt. Gaius is the traitor.
I'll send out a search party
as soon as possible.
No.
What purpose will that serve?
Let him run.
As you wish, sire.
[DOOR OPENS]
[DOOR CLOSES]
How can you believe this?
| know how you must feel.
We questioned him.
He's been consorting with sorcerers.
He more or less admitted to it.
And that makes him a traitor?
Why run if you have nothing to hide?
He's given his life to this kingdom.
He would never betray you.
Then explain his actions.
All right.
They're lies.
Gaius would never run off in the night.
Look, I know it's hard.
No break-ins were reported.
His possessions are missing.
A horse has been stolen.
He would not leave
without saying goodbye to me.
[SIGHS]
Agravaine has made this story up.
- I shall ignore that last comment.
-Because he's your uncle...
-...you will not see who he really is.
-Merlin!
I've had my heart broken enough already today.
| don't want to lose another friend.
Gaius condemned himself.
There's no more to be said.
[DOOR OPENS]
[GROANS]
MORGANA:
You had a difficult journey.
You must be tired.
It's time to wake up.
It's time for the fun to begin.
[GRUNTS]
Get on with it, Morgana.
Whatever you want to do, just do it now.
I'm not afraid to die.
MORGANA:
Dying is the easy part.
Wouldn't be in such a hurry if I were you.
My friend here is going to help me
get some information.
Some information you might be
a little reluctant to give.
| want you to tell me where Emrys is.
| don't know anyone called Emrys.
Oh, I think you do.
Do what you will.
| will never tell you anything, Morgana.
Alator is no ordinary torturer.
He's a Catha.
Priest of the old religion.
He has at his disposal some skills
only known by initiates.
But you're a learned man, Gaius.
I'm sure you know exactly what he can do.
[DOOR OPENS]
Thought you were him.
Agravaine's behind this.
He's done something to Gaius.
Arthur told me what you said.
He won't listen to me.
I'll do what I can,
but Agravaine's his uncle. He--
He trusts him more than anyone.
Yeah.
[SPEAKING IN FOREIGN LANGUAGE]
Do not resist the fire.
Let it into your mind.
Let the flames search out your thoughts.
Feel them burn...
...into the darkest recesses of your mind.
Let them shine a torch
on your deepest secrets...
...and bring them to the light.
[SPEAKING INCANTATION]
[DOOR CLICKING]
What are you doing in here?
Got bored with playing soldiers...
...and I thought I'd come
and see how you were.
I'm busy.
-Doing what?
-What do you think?
Looking for Gaius.
| know everyone thinks
he's a traitor, but he's not.
He's been abducted, Gwaine.
He may even be dead.
Probably don't need my help then.
-Do you know what this is?
-Might do.
Here. Let me see.
[SNIFFS]
That's iron ore.
Where'd you find this?
That doesn't matter. Does it help us?
Iron ore's pretty rare in Camelot.
In fact, I've only seen it once, on a patrol.
-Where?
-Uh, Ridge of Chemary.
They've been hewing iron from the rocks there
for hundreds of years.
ALATOR:
Feel the fire roar deep within you.
Feel your thoughts begin to simmer.
Let them flee the rushing flames.
Let them run like burning oil.
Let them escape.
Allow them free, Gaius.
Tell me.
Who is Emrys?
Merlin's onto us.
He's out searching for Gaius
even as we speak.
He may even know where he's hidden.
ALATOR:
Tell me about Emrys.
Tell me, Gaius.
Where can we find Emrys?
In Camelot.
Where in Camelot?
Emrys is--
Emrys is the name by which he is known
to the druids, but to me--
[GROANS]
| know him by a different name.
Tell me, Gaius.
No.
Who is he?
He-- He is the most powerful sorcerer
who has ever lived.
What is his name?
[GAIUS COUGHS]
His name...
...IS...
...Merlin.
[SHUDDERS]
GAIUS:
For the druids' legends are ftrue.
Merlin...
...IS...
...EmMrys.
A man destined for greatness.
A man who will one day unite the powers...
...of the old world and the new...
...and bring the time that the poets speak of.
The time...
...of Albion.
[SHOUTS]
[ALL GRUNTING]
[SCREAMS]
[SIGHS]
[GRUNTS]
Okay.
We should split up.
Yeah.
Gwaine.
If you find him, don't wait for me.
Black horse belongs to Gwaine.
He's a hothead.
We've got to be careful of him.
Go to Gaius.
If he remains alive, we're all in danger.
You can rest assured
he won't breathe another word.
I'll deal with Merlin and this hothead.
GWAINE:
Agravaine!
So it was you.
-You abducted him.
-What? No.
What are you doing?
-He's unconscious. I'm trying to help.
-With that?
- I want to see if he's still breathing.
-And is he?
Just. You can see the breath
is still on the blade. Look.
-Now do you believe--?
-How did you know he was here?
Guards on the western gate
saw you and Merlin leave.
Knowing Merlin's concern for Gaius...
...| thought there must be some new
information at hand. I just followed your trail.
You agree he was abducted then?
Yes. Of course he was.
Now let's get him back to Camelot
without delay.
-Come on.
-We have to find Merlin first.
No!
| fear if we do not leave now,
Gaius will not survive.
We've no time to lose. Give me a hand.
Look, the people who took Gaius
have already fled.
| saw them with my own eyes from the ridge.
We must get back to Camelot by nightfall.
Come on, Gwaine.
Help me! Please.
Merlin can find his own way back.
[GRUNTING]
You really are a thorn in my side,
aren't you?
When will you learn
not to meddle with things...
...you couldn't possibly understand?
It's difficult, isn't it...
...when there are so many painful ways
for me to be finally rid of you?
| don't care what you do to me.
| want to know what you've done to Gaius.
Gaius had some information I needed.
The whereabouts of the sorcerer Emrys.
If he gave it to me willingly,
his suffering would not be prolonged.
But if he did not--
If you have harmed him--
Why are we discussing his fate
when it's time to decide yours?
Not whether you're going to die alone
here in this godforsaken place.
That's going to happen anyway.
But how.
And precisely how painfully.
Alator.
This is Merlin.
He's just a serving boy...
...but he's the most troublesome serving boy
I've ever known.
| take it your time with Gaius was fruitful?
Gaius told me everything.
So you know who Emrys is?
Indeed I do.
Not only do I know who Emrys is...
...know exactly where he is.
Then tell me.
Never.
[BOTH SCREAMING]
[PANTING]
Merlin, I am Alator of the Catha.
| am honored to be of service.
You have magic.
| understand the burden you carry.
| have lived with it all my life.
| have been shunned, persecuted...
...and sometimes even hunted
in every corner of the five kingdoms.
| understand what that feels like.
You're not alone.
From what Gaius told me...
...I do not have your great powers, Merlin...
...but I share your hopes.
For I and others like me...
...have dreamt of the world
you seek to build...
...and we would gladly give our lives...
...to help you do it.
[SIGHS]
-What happened?
-We found him.
He'd been kidnapped.
He's in a bad way.
AGRAVAINE:
It seems I misjudged Gaius.
Merlin was right all along.
ARTHUR: We were lucky he found him.
-Indeed.
If it hadn't been for the tenacity
of your boy...
...Gaius would be dead.
We both owe Gaius and Merlin
an apology, my lord.
[GROANING]
I'm ashamed.
Why?
Your secret...
...a secret I thought I'd protect with my life--
-Gaius, you could have died.
-But if Morgana had found out--
She didn't.
She didn't count on Alator's true loyalties.
| worry that one day I'll let you down.
My worry is Arthur.
We can't tell him about Agravaine.
He needs to know.
We don't have any evidence...
...and you've seen how dear he is to Arthur.
[KNOCKING ON DOOR]
| think I owe both of you an apology.
Not to me.
To Gaius.
ARTHUR:
Yes.
Merlin, will you give us a moment?
Does that mean I get the morning off?
Yes. Yes, you can have the morning off...
...to clean my chambers,
polish my armor and launder my clothes.
You certainly know how to apologize.
Are you all right?
I'm just glad it's all over.
| made a mistake.
I've looked after you
since you were a nursling, Arthur.
You should have known I love you
far too much ever to betray you.
Gaius...
...who abducted you?
| couldn't say...
...but I'm certain they were in league
with Morgana.
-What did they want?
-Information...
...about you, Camelot.
To help bring down the kingdom.
Did they get it?
Morgana got nothing from me.
[CHUCKLES]
[SIGHS]
I'm grateful.
But there's a matter that still concerns me.
When you were asked about the sorcerer
who killed my father...
...you lied.
| did, sire.
-You admit it?
-I chose to protect him.
| feared you would seek him out
and execute him.
That would have been a grave mistake.
The sorcerer did not kill your father.
Uther was dying.
He tried everything in his power to save him.
Contained within this great kingdom...
...is a rich variety of people...
...with a range of different beliefs.
I'm not the only one seeking to protect you.
There are many more who believe
in the world you are trying to create.
One day, you will learn, Arthur.
One day, you will understand...
...just how much they've done for you.
NARRATOR:
Merlin.
There's something at work here
that I don't understand.
Are you suggesting sorcery?
GAIUS: A lamia.
-Aah!
A creature of magic.
They could control the mind of a man.
-Get away from her.
-It's something about you, Merlin.
It's the way she looks at you,
as if you were the enemy.
We're the ones in danger, Leon.
She's led us to a trap.
[English - US - SDH]